Create alt-text-scipy-2022.md (#343)
Quansight/Quansight-website: apps/labs/posts/alt-text-scipy-2022.md

---
title: SciPy 2022 Accessibility Awareness Programs
author: tony-fast

> published: July 12, 2022

Reviewer: This'll actually be on the 13th?

description: "Announcing the SciPy 2022 Accessibility Awareness Efforts"
category: [Accessibility]
# featuredImage:
#   src: /posts/hello-world-post/featured.png

> #   alt: 'Excellent alt-text describing the featured image'

Reviewer: Probably want to actually have alt text here?

First pass: "Close crop of a cartoon page showing a person writing alt text on an image that is part of a map, along with portions of text reading "ALT TEXT ... SCIENTIFIC DIAGRAMS ... DOCUMENTATION"

Author: these are commented out. there's alt text on the hero image. i didnt include a feature image.

hero:
 imageSrc: /posts/ally-scavenger-hunt-post-hero-image.png
 imageAlt: 'Three screenshots from the digital version of How to Write Alt Text for Scientific Diagrams and Visualization.'
---

It is SciPy this week! It's one of the biggest community events in our corner of the world. We are so excited for the festivities, the talks, and see hear all our friends new ideas.

Events, and technology, are increasingly more complex these days. This year SciPy is in-person and virtual, and we wanted to bring y'all two things that fit these constraints:

1. We're introducing a pilot open source [scavenger hunt](#the-scavenger-hunt) where you can:
   1. Contribute to popular open source projects.
   2. Improve the alt text of open source documentation.
2. A free digital _and limited print_ zine called [__How to Write Alt Text for Scientific Diagrams and Visualization__][zine] by [@marsbarlee](https://github.com/marsbarlee).

> ## The scavenger hunt

Reviewer: If you're putting a period at the end of `## How to participate.`, you should also put one here.

First, we need to acknowledge the four projects participating in this pilot:

1. Project Jupyter[^1]
2. SciPy
3. Dask
4. Bokeh

Thank y'all for taking the time to prepare for the scavenger hunt, and wanting to improve your documentation.

## How to participate.

- Follow each link/code to a pull request.

> - Follow the pull request instructions to modify the respective alt text in markdown and rst formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Follow the pull request instructions to modify the respective alt text in markdown or rst format, as appropriate.
```

| JupyterLab [^1]     | SciPy                 | Dask                | Bokeh                 |
| ------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------- | --------------------- |
| [![][jlabqr]][jlab] | [![][scipyqr]][scipy] | [![][daskqr]][dask] | [![][bokehqr]][bokeh] |

## Why participate?

- _low barrier to entry_ to participate in open source projects
- _improve the accessibility of open source documentation_

> - _learn about more alt text_

Reviewer: I think?

```suggestion
- _learn more about alt text_
```

- Stay tuned later this week to learn how you fight inaccessibility with our zine release.
- Use more alt text in your social media and documentation.
- Give the project maintainers time to merge your submissions.
- Enjoy [__How to Write Alt Text for Scientific Diagrams and Visualization__][zine]

[jlab]: https://github.com/isabela-pf/jupyterlab/pull/1
[jlabqr]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4236275/176369870-6fd6501f-288d-48c5-8cc3-4eaad0a35ee1.png
[scipy]: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/16546
[scipyqr]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4236275/177211155-c9ef9a49-962d-429e-83ff-5ef1e9f96ca3.png
[dask]: https://github.com/pavithraes/dask/pull/1
[daskqr]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4236275/177203555-1e0ef684-8113-4150-8909-2996cfbe060e.png
[bokeh]: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/12211
[bokehqr]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4236275/177208706-304e0176-969e-48a0-becd-730a8c92eb01.png
[placeholder]: #
[placeholderqr]: https://chart.googleapis.com/chart?cht=qr&chl=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Falt-text-task-force&chs=300x300&choe=UTF-8&chld=L|2
[zine]: https://heyzine.com/flip-book/f47006ad71.html

> [^1]: These alt text events, that started in Project Jupyter, have been a community mainstay for over a year. In these [low-code workshops](https://labs.quansight.org/blog/2021/09/low-code-contributions-through-github) we have been able to remove the complexities of git in contributing to open source. These events have been run [in the past with several communities](https://github.com/isabela-pf/a11y-events/tree/main/workshop-resources/alt-text#past-events).

Reviewer: The "and thus expand participation" is optional -- just think the thought is ~incomplete without it.

```suggestion
[^1]: These alt text events, which started in Project Jupyter, have been a community mainstay for over a year. In these [low-code workshops](https://labs.quansight.org/blog/2021/09/low-code-contributions-through-github) we have been able to remove the complexities of git in contributing to open source and thus expand participation. These events have been run [in the past with several communities](https://github.com/isabela-pf/a11y-events/tree/main/workshop-resources/alt-text#past-events).
```

---
title: SciPy 2022 Alt Text Scavenger Hunt

> author: Tony Fast

Reviewer 2: This needs to be `tony-fast`

published: July 12, 2022

> description: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet'

Reviewer 2: I don't know what this is for but it shouldn't be lorem ipsum.

category: [Accessbility, Open SOurce]

> # featuredImage:

Reviewer 2: You can leave featured image out, but the page is not able to render correctly without a hero image.

# hero:
#   imageSrc: /posts/hello-world-post/hero.jpeg
#   imageAlt: 'Excellent alt-text describing the hero image'
---

It is SciPy this week! It's one of the biggest community events in our corner of the world. We are so excited for the festivities, the talks, and see hear all our friends new ideas.

Events, and technology, are increasingly more complex these days. This year SciPy is in-person and virtual, and we wanted to bring y'all two things that fit these constraints: 

1. We're introducing a pilot open source scavenger hunt where you can:
	1. Contribute to popular open source projects.
	2. Improve the alt text of open source documentation.
2. We'll distribute  a print and digital zine about disability and accessibility advocacy.

## The scavenger hunt

First, we need to acknowledge the four projects participating in this pilot: 

1. Project Jupyter[^history]
2. SciPy
3. Dask
4. Bokeh

Thank y'all for taking the time to prepare for the scavenger hunt, and wanting to improve your documentation.

## How to participate.

* Follow each link/code to a pull request.
* Follow the pull request instructions to modify the respective alt text in [markdown] and [rst] formats.

> | JupyterLab    [^history]  | SciPy   | Dask | Bokeh |

Reviewer 2: For some reason, the mdx compiler is failing on this table. Not sure why yet.

|-----------------|----------------------|-------|---|
| [![][jlabqr]][jlab]  | [![][scipyqr]][scipy] | [![][daskqr]][dask] |  [![][bokehqr]][bokeh] |

## Why participate?

* *low barrier to entry* to participate in open source projects
* *improve the accessibility of open source documentation* 
* *learn about more alt text*

## What next?

* Start submitting and improving your alt text!
    * [Working Jupyter alt text guide](https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/jupyter-accessibility-workshops/blob/main/docs/alt-text-guide.md#diagrams-charts-plots)
    * [Chartability heuristics for accessible visualizations](https://chartability.fizz.studio/)
* Stay tuned later this week to learn how you fight inaccessibility with our zine release.
* Use more alt text in your social media and documentation.
* Give the project maintainers time to merge your submissions.

> <!-- ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4236275/176038647-78e2cb4a-5b17-4b15-8665-6b2990c68406.png) -->

Reviewer 2: The mdx complier cannot handle HTML comments.

[jlab]: https://github.com/isabela-pf/jupyterlab/pull/1
[jlabqr]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4236275/176369870-6fd6501f-288d-48c5-8cc3-4eaad0a35ee1.png
[scipy]: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/16546
[scipyqr]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4236275/177211155-c9ef9a49-962d-429e-83ff-5ef1e9f96ca3.png
[dask]: https://github.com/pavithraes/dask/pull/1
[daskqr]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4236275/177203555-1e0ef684-8113-4150-8909-2996cfbe060e.png
[bokeh]: https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/pull/12211
[bokehqr]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4236275/177208706-304e0176-969e-48a0-becd-730a8c92eb01.png
[placeholder]: #
[placeholderqr]: https://chart.googleapis.com/chart?cht=qr&chl=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Falt-text-task-force&chs=300x300&choe=UTF-8&chld=L|2
[^history]: The Alt Text workshop format started from Project Jupyter. The goal was a low-code, no-git workshop that worked for a lot of people. You can learn more about the history in our past blog posts, or even learn to run an event yourself
[markdown]: #
[rst]: #
[tips]: #

> [^history]: These alt text events have been a community for mainstay for over a year.  In these [low-code workshops](https://labs.quansight.org/blog/2021/09/low-code-contributions-through-github) we have been able to remove the complexities of git in contributing to open source. These events have been run [in the past with several communities](https://github.com/isabela-pf/a11y-events/tree/main/workshop-resources/alt-text#past-events).

Author: yea they are part of the gfm standard. https://github.blog/changelog/2021-09-30-footnotes-now-supported-in-markdown-fields/

---
title: SciPy 2022 Alt Text Scavenger Hunt
author: tony-fast
published: July 12, 2022

> description: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet'

Author: ```suggestion
description:"Announcing the SciPy 2022 Alt Text Scavenger Hunt"
```
